Selected Papers of the 5th International Workshop on Formal Aspects of Component Software (FACS'08)
This issue contains extended versions of selected papers from the 5th International Workshop on Formal Aspects of Component Software (FACS’08). From the thirteen research works that were presented at FACS’08, an initial selection of papers was made by the Program Committee, and their authors were invited to submit an extended version to this special issue. These extended papers went through an anonymous peer review process, and the revised versions of the five papers finally accepted are included in this special issue. We believe that the papers presented here provide key insights on different formal aspects of component software. Component-based software has emerged as a promising paradigm to deal with the increasing need for mastering systems’ complexity, for enabling evolution and reuse, and for driving software engineering into sound production and engineering standards. Many issues in component-based software development remain open and challenging research questions. On the other hand, formal methods are mathematically-based techniques for the specification, development and verification of software and hardware systems. Therefore, they can be of great use in setting up formal foundations of component software and working out challenging issues such as mathematical models for components, their composition and adaptation, or rigorous approaches to verification, deployment, testing and certification. The objective of the FACS workshops is to bring together researchers in the areas of component-based software and formal methods to promote a deep understanding of component-based software and its applications. FACS’08 was held in Málaga, Spain, on September 10–12, 2008. The first two articles in this issue are related to program slicing. Sabouri and Sirjani propose new static slicing techniques for reducing Rebeca models with respect to a property. Similar techniques can be applied on the other actor-based languages. On the other hand, Rodrigues and Barbosa use slicing techniques to extract coordination data from source code; such information can help with program understanding or refactoring. In the third article, Strollo et al. introduce a formal methodology to handle coordination among services from the perspective of a global observer, in the spirit of choreography models. They describe the verification of compliance and consistency between the design of service interactions and the choreography constraints. Finally, Lei et al. address the automated testing of software components in a stressful or unexpected environment, while Héam et al. tackle the problem of formally accepting or rejecting a component in a composition, i.e., component substitutivity, with respect to quality of service. Many people have contributed to making this special issue possible. Besides the authors of the papers, we would like to thank the members of the Program Committee of the workshop: Farhad Arbab (CWI, The Netherlands), Luis Barbosa (University of Minho, Portugal), Frank S. de Boer (CWI, The Netherlands), Tevfik Bultan (University of California at Santa Barbara, USA), Paolo Ciancarini (Università di Bologna, Italy), Dimitra Giannakopoulou (NASA Ames Research Center, USA), Rolf Hennicker (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Germany), Atsushi Igarashi (University of Kyoto, Japan), Sarfraz Khurshid (University of Texas at Austin, USA), Zhiming Liu (UNU-IIST, Macau, China), Markus Lumpe (Swinburne University of Technology, Australia), Eric Madelaine (INRIA, Centre Sophia Antipolis, France), Jeff Magee (Imperial College, United Kingdom), Rupak Majumdar (University of California at Berkeley, USA), Vladimir Mencl (Charles University, Czech Republic, and University of Canterbury, New Zealand), Marius Minea (Politehnica University of Timisoara, Romania), Frantisek Plasil (Charles University, Czech Republic), Pascal Poizat (ARLES Project-team, INRIA and Université d’Évry, France), Ralf Reussner (Universität Karlsruhe, Germany), Bernhard Schaetz (Technical University of Munich, Germany), Clemens A. Szyperski (Microsoft, USA), Carolyn Talcott (SRI International, USA), Emilio Tuosto (University of Leicester, United Kingdom), and Kurt Wallnau (Carnegie Mellon University, USA). Our thanks go also to the other anonymous referees who kindly agreed to help us with the selection and reviewing of the papers in this special issue