Methods Symposium
This NASA conference publication contains the proceedings of the First NASA Formal Methods Symposium (NFM 2009), held at the NASA Ames Research Center, in Moffett Field, CA, USA, on April 6 – 8, 2009. NFM 2009 is a forum for theoreticians and practitioners from academia and industry, with the goals of identifying challenges and providing solutions to achieving assurance in safety-critical systems. Within NASA, for example, such systems include autonomous robots, separation assurance algorithms for aircraft, and autonomous rendezvous and docking for spacecraft. Moreover, emerging paradigms such as code generation and safety cases are bringing with them new challenges and opportunities. The focus of the symposium is on formal techniques, their theory, current capabilities, and limitations, as well as their application to aerospace, robotics, and other safety-critical systems. The NASA Formal Methods Symposium is a new annual event intended to highlight the state of formal methods’ art and practice. It follows the earlier Langley Formal Methods Workshop series and aims to foster collaboration between NASA researchers and engineers, as well as the wider aerospace, safety-critical and formal methods communities. The specific topics covered by NFM 2009 included but were not limited to: formal verification, including theorem proving, model checking, and static analysis; automated testing and simulation techniques; model-based development; techniques and algorithms for scaling formal methods, such as abstraction and symbolic methods, compositional techniques, as well as parallel and/or distributed techniques; code generation; safety cases; accident/safety analysis; formal approaches to fault tolerance; theoretical advances and empirical evaluations of formal methods techniques for safety-critical systems, including hybrid and embedded systems. We considered two types of papers: regular papers describe fully developed work and complete results, and short papers describe interesting work in progress and/or preliminary results. Both categories must describe original work that has not been published elsewhere. We received 47 submissions (26 long papers and 19 short papers) out of which 22 were accepted (14 long, 8 short). All submissions went through a rigorous reviewing process, where each paper received a minimum of 3 reviews. The program selection was performed through an electronic Program Committee meeting. In addition to the refereed papers, the symposium featured five invited talks given by Ed Clarke (CMU, Turing Award 2007) on Model Checking – My 27-year Quest to Overcome the State Explosion Problem, Bill Othon (NASA JSC) on Applying Formal Methods to NASA Projects: Transition from Research to Practice, Leslie Lamport (MSR) on TLA+: Whence, Wherefore, and Whither, Todd Farley (NASA Ames) on Formal Methods Applications in Air Transportation, and John O’Leary (Intel) on TITLE. The program also included a panel discussion on Formal Methods meet NASA needs that was chaired by Mats Heimdahl (U. Minnesota). We would like to thank the program committee members and the external reviewers for their contribution in paper selection, and the NFM Organizing Committee for its support in setting up this event. Thanks also go to Allen Dutra, Domenico Bianculli, and Chris Fattarsi for their help with the NFM 2009 local organization and to Geoff Sutcliffe for help with the EasyChair style files. Finally, we thank SGT, in particular Larry Markosian, and CMU West, in particular Jim Morris, for their support. The NFM 2009 website can be found at http://ti.arc.nasa.gov/event/nfm09/