RET 2014 Organization
Welcome to the 1st International Workshop on Requirements Engineering and Testing (RET'14), colocated with RE 2014, in Karlskrona (SE). The objective of RET is to explore the interaction of Requirements Engineering (RE) and Testing in research and industry, and the challenges that result from this interaction. While much work has been done in the respective fields of requirements engineering and testing, there exists much more than can be done to understand the connection between RE and Testing processes. We hope RET will provide a much needed forum for exchanging ideas and best practices for aligning RE and Testing, and in particular can help foster industry-academia collaboration on this topic, and thereby connect the communities of RE and Testing. Topics include processes, practices, artifacts, methods, techniques, tools and softer aspects like the communication between roles in the engineering process. The RET'14 workshop solicited two types of submissions: full technical papers presenting research results, and position papers introducing challenges, preliminary results, or industrial experience reports. We received 14 submissions, each of them was extensively reviewed by at least three members of the program committee. The general and program chairs were excluded from submission and review. Finally, four technical papers and six position papers were accepted for presentation and publication in the proceedings, organized by the following topics: • RET Challenges and practices • Quality requirements • Formal languages and models The workshop started with a keynote by Magnus Ohlsson entitled “The Agile Hangover – Handling testable agile requirements”, followed by three presentation and discussion sessions, as well as a conclusive interactive session to map the research area. We would like to thank all the authors, from academia and industry, for their submissions, and especially the members of the program committee who provided valuable and detailed feedback. Moreover, we thank the organizers of RE for their support. We are looking forward to an exciting workshop!