VVS
The Government of Luxembourg is considering a proposal to abolish joint taxation. In this report, we employ policy simulation to investigate how this potential reform is likely to impact personal income taxes. The report aims to showcase over a concrete example how policy experts can benefit from a new simulation technology that has been developed through a joint initiative between CTIE and SnT, with guidance and support from ACD. This technology aims at supporting the policy decision-making and legal compliance analysis of information systems. Using the (potential) abolishment of joint taxation as a case study, we provide an overview of the developed simulation tool and highlight some of its key advantages. Notably: • The tool offers a visual and easy-to-understand notation for specifying policies. This notation serves as a communication bridge between policy and IT experts, enabling them to build a shared understanding of the policies that government information systems must comply with. The notation is automaticallytranslatable to executable simulation code. This means that the users of the tool are never exposed to simulation code and will only need to work with visual representations of policies. • The tool can automatically generate realistic simulation data based on known statistical properties and expert estimates about the population over which simulation needs to be performed. The tool is thus capable of addressing gaps in the simulation data. This capability is essential in situations such as when not all the necessary simulation data has been collected, for example, due to the high costs associated with data collection, or when new policies without any existing data need to be simulated. The report presents the results of simulating the abolishment of joint taxation over a synthetic sample of 10000 taxpayers, generated automatically by our tool. Publicly-available statistics from STATEC and Luxembourg’s Ministry of Finance have been used to guide the generation of this sample. The simulation can also be run directly on real tax records, although this type of simulation is not attempted here due to restrictions on access to real taxpayers’ data. The simulation results in this report are not meant as a definitive analysis of the implications of the abolishment of joint taxation. The results must be interpreted with respect to the scope, assumptions, and simplifications elaborated in the report. While the report concentrates on the taxation domain and an individual policy change within this domain, the simulation technology developed is generalizable and can be used in other domains such as social security, and for more sophisticated types of analysis according to the interests and needs of the experts.