MODUS: A goal-based approach for quantitative assessment of technical systems
Modern technical systems are often complex combinations of mechanical and electronic devices
that are controlled and monitored by embedded software. This combination leads to massive improvements
in product performance and flexibility, effectively turning conventionally designed
mechanical and electronic equipment into smart devices [18]. Heart pacemakers, DVD players,
and (new) cars are all examples of modern technical systems. At larger scales, many technical systems
are in fact systems of systems, built by integrating independent, self-contained applications
that, taken as a whole, satisfy a specified need [4]. Examples of such large-scale systems include
airplanes, ships, and oil rigs.
Technical systems typically have a long life-span with significant potential impact on their users
and the environment. As a result, these systems are usually subject to various requirements concerning
Reliability (continuity of correct service), Availability (readiness for correct service), Maintainability
(ability to undergo modifications and repairs) and Safety (absence of catastrophic failures
leading to injury or environmental damage). These quality factors together with the high cost
of manufacturing also means that technical systems are expensive to develop. While the opportunities
related to applying these systems are significant, there are risks associated with the impact
and performance of the systems. It is therefore crucial to assess and manage risks throughout the
system life cycle, starting from the inception phase to the maintenance and all through to the final
decommissioning.
The risks associated with technical systems can be examined along two main dimensions:
• Dependability risks: These encompass the spectrum of risks posed by service failures and
degradations that are more frequent and more severe than is acceptable [1]. Dependability is
a very broad notion and covers reliability, availability, maintainability and safety described
above [1].
• Cost-effectiveness risks: These are risks posed by time and budget overruns and poor scoping
of the systems. Cost-effectiveness is intimately affected by the dependability targets. It is
therefore important to be realistic about the acceptable likelihood for failure and strike the
right balance between costs and failure margins.
A key requirement for many types of systems is to provide a documented case (that is, a systematic
set of arguments backed up by convincing evidence) to demonstrate that the relevant risks are
adequately mitigated and the overall goals of the system are achieved. For example, it is now
increasingly common to develop safety cases for safety-critical systems to show that the safety
risks have been reduced as low as reasonably possible and thus provide assurance that the safety
goals of the system are fulfilled [11].
For large technical systems, assessing the fulfillment of the overall dependability and cost-effectiveness
goals is a difficult task. To facilitate this task, we describe in this report a flexible methodology, called Modus1
, that enables analysts to quantitatively assess whether a system meets its goals. Our
methodology builds on two basic principles:
1. Goal Elaboration. Providing arguments about the satisfaction of an overall goal requires
elaborating the goal into more specific subgoals for which meaningful evidence can be provided.
For example, it is extremely hard, if not impossible, to directly argue about whether
an overall goal such as “The system shall be safe” is met, unless this goal is systematically
broken down into specific safety requirements with specific margins.
2. Systematic Elicitation of Expert Opinions. Assessment has a strong dependence on expert
opinions, hence it is essential to take measures for ensuring that these opinions are elicited
as precisely as possible. An expert refers to an individual (typically a member of the assessment
or development teams) with specific knowledge and skills gained from training and
experience.
Modus takes an inter-disciplinary approach towards assessment and builds on techniques from
different fields of knowledge. In particular, we draw on goal modeling techniques developed in
the Requirements Engineering field for capturing and decomposing the strategic goals concerning
a system. A goal is defined as “a prescriptive statement of intent the system should satisfy” [21].
Goals along with the relationships between them are used to create goal models. These models
provide a logical basis for arguing about the mitigation of risks.
We employ expert elicitation techniques widely used in risk management and other fields, such as
medical sciences, for systematically soliciting expert opinions about quantities such as probabilities
and weights, and further for monitoring and mitigating biases throughout the elicitation process
[12, 15].
Lastly, we will use probabilistic simulation techniques, in particular the Monte Carlo method [22,
17], and sensitivity and impact analysis, to analyze goal satisfaction levels and the uncertainty in
expert opinions.
While the Modus methodology is general and can be used for various types of assessment, the
main driver for our work is a particular kind of assessment activity, called technology qualification,
aimed at verifying that the overall goals of a new technology will be satisfied within specific margins.
Technology qualification is an increasingly important activity, particularly in fast-growing
industry sectors, such as the energy sector, to ensure that newly developed solutions can be brought
to the market in an efficient, safe, and credible manner. DNV’s A203 Recommended Practice (referred
to as RP-A203 in the remainder of this report) [16] provides a useful overall framework for
technology qualification.
We take particular note of the activities outlined in RP-A203 and provide a mapping between the
steps in Modus and the activities in the recommended practice to facilitate the integration of Modus
into the technology qualification workflow. We note however that Modus has not yet been used in an actual technology qualification project. The approach we present in this report should therefore
be seen an exposition of the basic ideas and principles and will inevitably have to be refined with
practice.
The remainder of this report is structured as follows: In Section 2, we discuss the general problems
observed in assessing technical systems. In Section 3, we outline the technology qualification
process prescribed by RP-A203. We provide a detailed description of our methodology for quantitative
assessment in Section 4. We conclude the report in Section 5 with a summary and areas for
future work.