European Web Security Roadmap
In this document, we thoroughly assess the current state of web application security in respect to state-of-the-practice, state-of-the-art, research, and standardisation with special attention to the European aspect. The collected data is then utilized to successively define a near to mid-term research roadmap for Web security to guide impactful research and development of secure and trustworthy Web technologies. In this context the deliverable collects areas of Web security which are still underdeveloped, identifies missing pieces in the research landscape, and points out promising directions for future research. In addition connections between research and standardisation activities are explored, as well as existing mismatches in the area are shown. This way, the deliverable provides a bigger picture on the field of Web security research, to aid the decision making process, when it comes to create new research/standardisation actives and future research projects/work programs. To structure this ambitious project, Part I first defines a systematic methodology for data collection and analysis. This methodology is based on five well defined objectives which were directly derived from the STREWS mission statement: (OBJ.1) Identify significant gaps between the state-of-the-practice and current research results. (OBJ.2) Identify mismatches in between ongoing/future standardisation and research activities in the field of Web security and the needs of the Web’s practitioners. (OBJ.3) Identify the emerging topics and future hot spots of Web security. (OBJ.4) Map standardization and research efforts to the observed emerging topics in Web security. Identify topics that require further attention or are not covered yet. (OBJ.5) Obtain current information on the state of European research in the field of Web security. Guided by these objectives, suitable data sources were identified, which in total span the full spectrum of web application security. These data sources were chosen according to their capability to cover the four STREWS focus areas (state-of-the-practice, research and innovation, standardisation activities, and emerging topics). For each of the chosen data sources a clear data collection and analysis process was determined, to ensure that the resulting outcome helps to achieve the deliverable’s objectives. After the selection process a total of ten distinct data sources were selected to appear in this document: (DS.1) The State-of-the-Practice in today’s Web Software (DS.2) Selected Empirical Studies (DS.3) Observable Gaps between the State-of-the-Art and the State-of-the-Practice (DS.4) Interactive Survey (DS.5) Review of related NoE and Policy activities (DS.6) STREWS Workshops (DS.7) Standardisation Activities (DS.8) STREWS Case Study 1: WebRTC (DS.9) STREWS Case Study 2: Web Security Architectures (DS.10) Cybersecurity Each of these distinct topics is explored in depth in Part II of the deliverable. The sum of the collected reports provides a comprehensive overview on the current state of web application security and web application security research. In the second half of Part I, the collected data is analysed according to the goals of the deliverable. For this, we first draw individual conclusions from the distinct data sources. Then, in a second step, these results are correlated on an objective level. In this step, we identify and explore the emerging and hot topics in web security that require future attention from research, practice and standardisation, namely: client-side complexity, JavaScript sandboxing, server-driven security policies, JavaScript crypto and hardware tokens, the end of the clientserver paradigm, web privacy, and advancing web authentication and session tracking. Finally, we use the collected insight to pinpoint the upcoming security research challenges for the European web, which either directly result from the emerging topics or materialized as notable insights from the objective-level data correlation: • Challenge 1: Revisiting classic attacks • Challenge 2: Handling the extending web paradigm • Challenge 3: Realizing real end-to-end security • Challenge 4: Increasing End-user Security and Privacy The combination of the identified emerging topics and the overarching research challenges results in an exiting and promising research roadmap for the mid to long term. We expect, that following this roadmap will lead to impactful results, which address the future security problems of the Web, while being well suited to be adopted by practitioners and standardisation.