Special issue" Abstract State Machines, Alloy, B and Z; Selected papers from ABZ 2010"
This special issue provides a selection of the best papers presented at ABZ 2010, which was held in Orford (Québec) Canada, during February 22–25, 2010. They include significant extensions which were submitted to a rigorous refereeing process. ABZ covers recent advances in four equally rigorous methods for software and hardware development: Abstract State Machines (ASM), Alloy, B and Z. They share a common conceptual framework, centered around the notions of state and operation, and promote mathematical precision in the modeling, verification and construction of highly dependable systems. These methods have matured enough to be integrated into industrial practice in various areas such as trains, automobiles, aerospace, telecommunications, smart cards, virtual machines, and business processes. Research and practice mutually nurture each other, steering continuous improvement of the theory and tools behind these methods. This issue contains four papers. The first paper,Validation of FormalModels by Refinement Animation, by StefanHallerstede, Michael Leuschel and Daniel Plagge, explores animation of multi-level models in Event-B. Event-B models are developed through successive refinements, by adding details and constraints in an incremental manner, which provide this multilevel view of a system. Proving refinement and invariant properties has traditionally been the favored way of validating the adequacy of formal models. The authors argue that simulation is an effective complementary way of finding errors in models, and provide an algorithm for simulating multi-level models obtained by refinement. The second paper, Reasoned Modelling Critics: Turning Failed Proofs into Modelling Guidance, by Andrew Ireland, Gudmund Grov, Maria Teresa Llano and Michael Butler, addresses failed proof obligations in Event-B, and shows how to exploit them to improve a specification. The technique is inspired from proof planning and uses modeling heuristics. The third paper, Integration of SMT-Solvers in B and Event-B Development Environments, by David Déharbe, integrates SMT solvers into the Rodin toolset, in order to provide an alternative to the automatic prover of Rodin. The author has formalized a nice subset of the B theory. His experimentations show that SMT solvers can prove statements that Rodin’s native automatic prover cannot, and vice-versa, thus increasing the ratio of automatic proofs for Event-B models. The fourth paper,Modeling the Java Bytecode Verifier, by Mark C. Reynolds, formalizes the security constraints of the Java language and the Java byte code language itself, using Alloy. The Alloy analyzer can then be used to check that a Java byte code program satisfies these security constraints. Thus, this Alloy model could be used as a test oracle to certify test cases submitted to a Java byte code verifier. We wish to thank the reviewers for their diligence, dedication and effort, and the ABZ program committee for helping us in selecting these papers.